test/data/README.md, before:

# Datasets

MICROSOFT PROVIDES THE DATASETS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS. MICROSOFT MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, GUARANTEES OR CONDITIONS WITH RESPECT TO YOUR USE OF THE DATASETS. TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER YOUR LOCAL LAW, MICROSOFT DISCLAIMS ALL LIABILITY FOR ANY DAMAGES OR LOSSES, INLCUDING DIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR PUNITIVE, RESULTING FROM YOUR USE OF THE DATASETS.

The datasets are provided under the original terms that Microsoft received such datasets. See below for more information about each dataset.

### Wikipedia Detox

>This dataset is provided under [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/public-domain/cc0/). Redistributing the dataset "wikipedia-detox-250-line-data.tsv" with attribution:
>
> Wulczyn, Ellery; Thain, Nithum; Dixon, Lucas (2016): Wikipedia Detox. figshare.
>
>With modifications by taking a sample of rows and reducing rough language.
>
>Original source: https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.4054689
>
>Original readme: https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Research:Detox

### UCI Adult Dataset 

>Dua, D. and Karra Taniskidou, E. (2017). UCI Machine Learning Repository [https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml]. Irvine, CA: University of California, School of Information and Computer Science.
>
>https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Adult

### Breast Cancer Wisconsin

Redistributing the dataset "breast-cancer.txt" with attribution:

> O. L. Mangasarian and W. H. Wolberg: "Cancer diagnosis via linear programming", SIAM News, Volume 23, Number 5, September 1990, pp 1 & 18.
>
>  Original source: http://ftp.cs.wisc.edu:80/math-prog/cpo-dataset/machine-learn/cancer/cancer1/datacum
>
>  Original readme: http://ftp.cs.wisc.edu/math-prog/cpo-dataset/machine-learn/cancer/cancer1/data.doc

### MNIST

> MNIST data originally from [NIST](https://www.nist.gov) and modified by Chris Burges, Corinna Cortes, and Yann LeCun. http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/
>
> More information: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MNIST_database 

### NYC Taxi Fare

Redistributing the dataset "taxi-fare-test.csv", "taxi-fare-train.csv" with attribution:

> Original source: https://www.nyc.gov/html/tlc/html/about/trip_record_data.shtml
> 
> The dataset is provided under terms provided by City of New York: https://opendata.cityofnewyork.us/overview/#termsofuse.

### MSLR-WEB10K, MSLR-WEB30K

This dataset is originally from [Introducing LETOR 4.0 Datasets](https://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2597).
The dataset is under a CC-by 4.0 license.
```
@article{DBLP:journals/corr/QinL13,
  author    = {Tao Qin and 
               Tie{-}Yan Liu},
  title     = {Introducing {LETOR} 4.0 Datasets},
  journal   = {CoRR},
  volume    = {abs/1306.2597},
  year      = {2013},
  url       = {https://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2597},
  timestamp = {Mon, 01 Jul 2013 20:31:25 +0200},
  biburl    = {https://dblp.uni-trier.de/rec/bib/journals/corr/QinL13},
  bibsource = {dblp computer science bibliography, https://dblp.org}
}
```

# Images

### Located in `images` folder

> "[Banana and cross section](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Banana_and_cross_section.jpg)" by [fir0002](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Fir0002) is licensed under the [CC BY-NC](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/)
>
> "[Hot dog with mustard](https://visualsonline.cancer.gov/details.cfm?imageid=2669)" by Renee Comet is in the public domain - this image was released by the [National Cancer Institute](https://visualsonline.cancer.gov/details.cfm?imageid=2669)
>
> "[Bright red tomato and cross section02](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/88/Bright_red_tomato_and_cross_section02.jpg)" by [fir0002](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Fir0002) is licensed under the [CC BY-NC](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/)

Commit message:

Enable a QuantileRegression Test & Fix Duplicated Baseline Files (#1193)
* Enable a QuantileRegression test

Enable CommandTrainScoreEvaluateQuantileRegression, add the dataset and the necessary baselines.

The only baseline changes were of the form that were caused by https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/31847.

* Allow BaseTestBaseline to check Common first.

A lot of baseline tests have duplicated baselines between debug and release. Allow BaseTestBaseline to check the Common baseline directory for a baseline file first.

Fix #410

* PR feedback

Add more info to the README.
Add column headers to the housing.txt data file.

test/data/README.md, after:

# Datasets

MICROSOFT PROVIDES THE DATASETS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS. MICROSOFT MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, GUARANTEES OR CONDITIONS WITH RESPECT TO YOUR USE OF THE DATASETS. TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER YOUR LOCAL LAW, MICROSOFT DISCLAIMS ALL LIABILITY FOR ANY DAMAGES OR LOSSES, INLCUDING DIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR PUNITIVE, RESULTING FROM YOUR USE OF THE DATASETS.

The datasets are provided under the original terms that Microsoft received such datasets. See below for more information about each dataset.

### Wikipedia Detox

>This dataset is provided under [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/public-domain/cc0/). Redistributing the dataset "wikipedia-detox-250-line-data.tsv" with attribution:
>
> Wulczyn, Ellery; Thain, Nithum; Dixon, Lucas (2016): Wikipedia Detox. figshare.
>
>With modifications by taking a sample of rows and reducing rough language.
>
>Original source: https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.4054689
>
>Original readme: https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Research:Detox

### UCI Adult Dataset 

>Dua, D. and Karra Taniskidou, E. (2017). UCI Machine Learning Repository [https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml]. Irvine, CA: University of California, School of Information and Computer Science.
>
>https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Adult

### Breast Cancer Wisconsin

Redistributing the dataset "breast-cancer.txt" with attribution:

> O. L. Mangasarian and W. H. Wolberg: "Cancer diagnosis via linear programming", SIAM News, Volume 23, Number 5, September 1990, pp 1 & 18.
>
>  Original source: http://ftp.cs.wisc.edu:80/math-prog/cpo-dataset/machine-learn/cancer/cancer1/datacum
>
>  Original readme: http://ftp.cs.wisc.edu/math-prog/cpo-dataset/machine-learn/cancer/cancer1/data.doc

### MNIST

> MNIST data originally from [NIST](https://www.nist.gov) and modified by Chris Burges, Corinna Cortes, and Yann LeCun. http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/
>
> More information: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MNIST_database 

### NYC Taxi Fare

Redistributing the dataset "taxi-fare-test.csv", "taxi-fare-train.csv" with attribution:

> Original source: https://www.nyc.gov/html/tlc/html/about/trip_record_data.shtml
> 
> The dataset is provided under terms provided by City of New York: https://opendata.cityofnewyork.us/overview/#termsofuse.

### MSLR-WEB10K, MSLR-WEB30K

This dataset is originally from [Introducing LETOR 4.0 Datasets](https://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2597).
The dataset is under a CC-by 4.0 license.
```
@article{DBLP:journals/corr/QinL13,
  author    = {Tao Qin and 
               Tie{-}Yan Liu},
  title     = {Introducing {LETOR} 4.0 Datasets},
  journal   = {CoRR},
  volume    = {abs/1306.2597},
  year      = {2013},
  url       = {https://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2597},
  timestamp = {Mon, 01 Jul 2013 20:31:25 +0200},
  biburl    = {https://dblp.uni-trier.de/rec/bib/journals/corr/QinL13},
  bibsource = {dblp computer science bibliography, https://dblp.org}
}
```

### Boston Housing Data

Redistributing the dataset "[housing.txt](housing.txt)" with attribution:

 > Harrison, D. and Rubinfeld, D.L. 'Hedonic prices and the demand for clean air', J. Environ. Economics & Management, vol.5, 81-102, 1978.

More information: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/housing/housing.names

# Images

### Located in `images` folder

> "[Banana and cross section](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Banana_and_cross_section.jpg)" by [fir0002](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Fir0002) is licensed under the [CC BY-NC](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/)
>
> "[Hot dog with mustard](https://visualsonline.cancer.gov/details.cfm?imageid=2669)" by Renee Comet is in the public domain - this image was released by the [National Cancer Institute](https://visualsonline.cancer.gov/details.cfm?imageid=2669)
>
> "[Bright red tomato and cross section02](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/88/Bright_red_tomato_and_cross_section02.jpg)" by [fir0002](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Fir0002) is licensed under the [CC BY-NC](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/)
