docs/building/windows-instructions.md, before:

Building ML.NET on Windows
==========================

You can build ML.NET either via the command line or by using Visual Studio.

## Required Software

1. **[Visual Studio 2017](https://www.visualstudio.com/downloads/) (Community, Professional, Enterprise)** The Community version is completely free. The below build instructions were verified for VS 15.8.0 and higher.
2. **[CMake](https://cmake.org/)** must be installed from [the CMake download page](https://cmake.org/download/#latest) and added to your path.

### Visual Studio 2017 Installation
We have successfully verified the below build instructions for Visual Studio version 15.8.0 and higher. 

#### Visual Studio 2017 - 'Workloads' based install

The following are the minimum requirements:
  * .NET desktop development
    * All Required Components
    * .NET Framework 4-4.6 Development Tools
  * Desktop development with C++
    * All Required Components
    * VC++ 2017 v141 Toolset (x86, x64)
    * Windows 8.1 SDK and UCRT SDK
  * .NET Core cross-platform development
    * All Required Components

Note: If you have both VS 2017 and 2015 installed, you need to copy DIA SDK directory from VS 2015 installation into VS 2017 (VS installer bug).

#### Visual Studio 2017 - 'Individual components' based install

The following are the minimum requirements:
  * C# and Visual Basic Roslyn Compilers
  * Static Analysis Tools
  * .NET Portable Library Targeting Pack
  * Visual Studio C++ Core Features
  * VC++ 2017 v141 Toolset (x86, x64)
  * MSBuild
  * .NET Framework 4.6 Targeting Pack
  * Windows Universal CRT SDK

## Building Instructions

### Building From Visual Studio 2017

First, set up the required tools, from a (non-admin) Command Prompt window:

- `build.cmd` - sets up tools and builds the assemblies

After successfully running the command, the project can be built directly from the Visual Studio IDE. Tests can be executed from the VS Test Explorer or command line.

### Building From the Command Line

You can use the Developer Command Prompt, Powershell or work in any regular cmd. The Developer Command Prompt will have a name like "Developer Command Prompt for VS 2017" or similar in your start menu. 

From a (non-admin) Command Prompt window:

- `build.cmd` - builds the assemblies
- `build.cmd -runTests` - called after a normal "build.cmd" will run all tests
- `build.cmd -buildPackages` called after a normal “build.cmd” will create the NuGet packages with the assemblies in “bin"

**Note**: Before working on individual projects or test projects you **must** run `build.cmd` from the root once before beginning that work. It is also a good idea to run `build.cmd` whenever you pull a large set of unknown changes into your branch.

## Running Tests

### Running tests from Visual Studio

After successfully building, run tests in the Visual Studio Test Explorer window.

### Running tests from the command line

From the root, run `build.cmd` and then `build.cmd -runTests`.
For more details, or to test an individual project, you can navigate to the test project directory and then use `dotnet test`

## Known Issues

CMake 3.7 or higher is required for Visual Studio 2017.

You need to run `build` from the root of the repo first prior to opening the solution file and building in Visual Studio.

Commit message:

Add Git submodule init to Windows build instructions
Submodules must also be initialised in Windows to fetch the necessary
dependencies.

docs/building/windows-instructions.md, after:

Building ML.NET on Windows
==========================

You can build ML.NET either via the command line or by using Visual Studio.

## Required Software

1. **[Visual Studio 2017](https://www.visualstudio.com/downloads/) (Community, Professional, Enterprise)** The Community version is completely free. The below build instructions were verified for VS 15.8.0 and higher.
2. **[CMake](https://cmake.org/)** must be installed from [the CMake download page](https://cmake.org/download/#latest) and added to your path.

### Visual Studio 2017 Installation
We have successfully verified the below build instructions for Visual Studio version 15.8.0 and higher. 

#### Visual Studio 2017 - 'Workloads' based install

The following are the minimum requirements:
  * .NET desktop development
    * All Required Components
    * .NET Framework 4-4.6 Development Tools
  * Desktop development with C++
    * All Required Components
    * VC++ 2017 v141 Toolset (x86, x64)
    * Windows 8.1 SDK and UCRT SDK
  * .NET Core cross-platform development
    * All Required Components

Note: If you have both VS 2017 and 2015 installed, you need to copy DIA SDK directory from VS 2015 installation into VS 2017 (VS installer bug).

#### Visual Studio 2017 - 'Individual components' based install

The following are the minimum requirements:
  * C# and Visual Basic Roslyn Compilers
  * Static Analysis Tools
  * .NET Portable Library Targeting Pack
  * Visual Studio C++ Core Features
  * VC++ 2017 v141 Toolset (x86, x64)
  * MSBuild
  * .NET Framework 4.6 Targeting Pack
  * Windows Universal CRT SDK

## Building Instructions

In order to fetch dependencies which come through Git submodules the following command needs to be run before building: `git submodule update --init`.

### Building From Visual Studio 2017

First, set up the required tools, from a (non-admin) Command Prompt window:

- `build.cmd` - sets up tools and builds the assemblies

After successfully running the command, the project can be built directly from the Visual Studio IDE. Tests can be executed from the VS Test Explorer or command line.

### Building From the Command Line

You can use the Developer Command Prompt, Powershell or work in any regular cmd. The Developer Command Prompt will have a name like "Developer Command Prompt for VS 2017" or similar in your start menu. 

From a (non-admin) Command Prompt window:

- `build.cmd` - builds the assemblies
- `build.cmd -runTests` - called after a normal "build.cmd" will run all tests
- `build.cmd -buildPackages` called after a normal “build.cmd” will create the NuGet packages with the assemblies in “bin"

**Note**: Before working on individual projects or test projects you **must** run `build.cmd` from the root once before beginning that work. It is also a good idea to run `build.cmd` whenever you pull a large set of unknown changes into your branch.

## Running Tests

### Running tests from Visual Studio

After successfully building, run tests in the Visual Studio Test Explorer window.

### Running tests from the command line

From the root, run `build.cmd` and then `build.cmd -runTests`.
For more details, or to test an individual project, you can navigate to the test project directory and then use `dotnet test`

## Known Issues

CMake 3.7 or higher is required for Visual Studio 2017.

You need to run `build` from the root of the repo first prior to opening the solution file and building in Visual Studio.
